well it's now 24 hours since the
beginning of a surprise attack by Hamas
against Israel here are the key
developments in the conflict as they
stand this Sunday morning Israel's prime
minister has warned Gins to prepare for
retaliation and says his country is
about to embark on a long and difficult
War more than 250 Israelis have died and
the toll on the Palestinian side has
been put at at least
230 gun bottles are continuing in
several parts of Israel amas gunmen have
taken hostages although some are
reported to have been released there are
some reports on Rockets being fired from
Lebanon into Northern Israel the
militant group Hezbollah have said they
did it the UN Security Council will meet
later on Sunday President Biden has
vowed Rock Solid support for Israel and
warned against other countries taking
advantage of the
situation well let's show you live
pictures from Gaza now all is relatively
quiet on the streets no surprise as
we've just mentioned people have been
told to shelter inside we know that air
strikes have continued just in the past
few
hours we've seen renewed Israeli air
strikes overnight it's responded to
hamas's attack with devastating air
strikes including some in the last
little while the United States is
working with other governments to calm
the situation several Middle Eastern
countries including Egypt Saudi Arabia
and Jordan have been in to in contact to
coordinate efforts to contain the
violence the UN Security Council will
discuss the crisis at an emergency
meeting on Sunday Simon Jones has the
[Applause]
latest what Israel is describing as its
Mighty Vengeance on the Palestinian
militant group Hamas overnight Gaza has
been rocked by
explosions
earlier war planes hit several buildings
in the center of the
city the Israeli Defense Forces released
these pictures which they say are Hamas
cells being targeted the Israeli
military trying to show they are on the
front foot after being taken by surprise
by hamas's attacks the Israeli Prime
Minister issued this warning in a
televised
address all of the places Hamas is
active in in this city of evil all the
places Hamas is hiding in operating from
will turn them into ruins I'm telling
the people of Gaza get out of there now
because we're about to take action
everywhere with all our
Force this is how the attack by Hamas
began yesterday morning armed men
cutting through Israel's perimeter fence
accompanied by a wave of Rocket attacks
Hamas released this footage showing an
Israeli tank being targeted it was a
highly planned operation catching Israel
off
guard Israelis who' been at a rave in
the fields near Gaza were forced to flee
for their lives they were going three by
three and
shooting everywhere from two sides and I
saw many people like people were dying
like all around
Israelis were seen being taken into Gaza
as hostages more than 50 soldiers and
civilians are believed to have been
taken captive though some have been
rescued or released
overnight the leader of Hamas which
governs Gaza has promised to end
Israel's occupation of Palestinian
lands we are on the verge of a great
Victory and a clear Conquest on on the
Gaza
front in the Israeli city of sidot which
came under attack a bulldozer is used to
break into a police station where Hamas
gunmen were thought to be holed up the
British prime minister has described
hamas's actions as cowardly and depraved
a view shared by the US
president innocent people murdered
wounded entire families taken hostage by
Hamas just days after Israel marked the
holiest of days in the Jewish calendar
is
unconscionable you know when I spoke
with prime minister Netanyahu this
morning I told him the United States
stands with the people of Israel in the
face of these terrorist
assaults this morning Gaza is shrouded
in Smoke Israel says it's cutting off
the supply of electricity Fuel and goods
to the city the Israeli military says it
has also carried out strikes into
Lebanon after shots were F from the
North and the Hamas attacks have
continued this was Tel Aviv last night
the escalating violence will be
discussed today at an emergency meeting
of the UN Security Council hamash shows
no sign of pulling back the Israeli
Prime Minister is warning of a long and
difficult War diplomatic efforts to
stabilize what is the largest escalation
in this conflict for decades won't be
easy Simon Jones BBC News well let's go
live to our report in Gaza rushi abalu
uh rushi a very tense situation right
now what's the latest that you're
hearing inside
Gaza yeah was nonstop chilling all night
air strike strikes according to sources
about 150 targets have been hit since
the last night night and until now the
explosions could be heard black smoke
raised out of the Hamas
Comm Commander buildings in in Gaza
according to Hamas about houses belong
to Hamas senior commanders and also
local military commanders have been
targeted destroyed about 20 22 people
have been killed out of because of the
last night night and this morning air
strikes and this is bring the the
overall diff diff beginning this
operation to 252 people and over over
1,700 people have been injured some of
them in a very critic critical condition
appeal to be able to visit any nearest
hospital and donate a blood for for this
the this the the the picture here is
completely different this morning from
yeser from yesterday yesterday we have
seen people celebrating Hamas firing
thousands of rockets into Israel but
this morning
the situation is completely the opposite
people are staying Indo the sound of
explosions the the black smoke are
almost across the
Gaza Strip also
the most of the areas in G are without
electricity as Israel stopped the
supplying Gaza with with the electricity
so only 20% of the electricity needed
are available for for Gaza so so most
have no electricity and when there is no
electricity always the Water Supplies
will be
affected lines are down since since
yesterday and this morning one of the
significant air strike that targeted
what is called the Waton building it's a
building that consider a h a hub for
most of
the internet providers in in Gaza so
more more problem will be faced by the
people of Gaza because of destroying
this Tower
which considered one of the for the
internet
and rashy you've taken us through what
Ordinary People are facing inside Gaza
at the moment what about Hamas there has
been shock outside of Gaza at the size
of the weapons Arsenal that Hamas were
able to build up can you shed some light
onto
that
yeah well for the last 17 years Hamas is
in control of this territory it's a it's
a place where they have a
long Coastal border and Al and also a
border with the sinin and I think Hamas
was all the time not hiding they were
all the time saying that we are
preparing for such battle with Israel
with the we are developing weapons we
are smuggling weapons into into Gaza and
also they are expecting Israeli to to
react react or to what they have done
yesterday and we have seen how how
Israel hit hard last night and they they
continue to do destroying most of the
Hamas two
three buildings Hamas Banks were
destroyed infrastructure for Hamas
military compound also so houses for
their for their leaders were hit and
destroyed so Hamas know the consequences
of
such to Israel and they must have been
expecting that Israeli reaction okay
Rashi thank you for talking to us I'm
glad we got a line through to you in
Gaza City Rashi Abu ALU thank you